---
exclude: false
layout: post
title: "Untitled"
tags:
- The Drake
- Inis Nua Theatre Company
- Louis Bluver Theater
---

Twin brothers, born on Nigerian Independence Day, grown up on two different sides of the country's life. X, left nameless on the night of his naming, grows up in Nigeria and relays his twenty-five years to the audience. Y, given a name though never to us, grows up a Nigerian-born Londoner. Keith Illidge masterfully plays both brothers, in addition to 11 different characters throughout the show, each one a distinct personality, movement, and voice. For a place of magic and mythology, the performance makes Nigeria - both young and old, new and same, come alive.

The differences between X and Y are distinct - though both storytellers, X's lore mirrors Nigerian traditions and community gatherings; Y's poetry means his stories move softly and quickly, and even its nervous moments as though it is being sputtered out. But do not mistake the show's premise - this is X's story first and foremost. Y has a developed story, but it is about returning to Nigeria, returning to his brother. While other reviews thinks this second story suffers, I think it is ultimately successful and worth the diversion.

And the set! The set! THE SET! This is Marie Laster's first solo professional production, and it is amazing how a show so intimate feels so large on this stage. The tree's placement takes over all. The woodchips are so effective (reminding me a lot of the floor at Egoli)! Laster's background in architecture seems like a natural fit, and it's helping me figure out more of what makes a set successful.

I couldn't help but jump to Teju Cole's work for Y's half - returning to Lagos reminded me so much of reading *Open City*. Or even Binyavanga Wainana's *One Day I Will Write About This Place* for X, though I haven't read his work in quite a long time.

 ## Notes

 * I really appreciated the talk-back (takeaway) here with Artistic Director Tom Reing, set designer Marie Laster, actor Keith Illidge, and dramaturg Adrena Williams. Their willingness to talk through the process of a building a show, their responsibilities in its creation, and their reflections on it now helped the audience.
 * SOUND! Daniel Ison's sound is very important here, and its movement around the stage is awesome.
