---
layout: post
title: "Cry It Out"
tags:
- Simpatico Theatre Company
- Louis Bluver Theatre
- The Drake
---
> “We’re held hostage all day in dirty yoga pants by little larval creatures who would literally die if we checked our email.”

I was ambivalent going into this show - what could I connect with in a show about motherhood? But *Cry It Out* is precisely the kind of show that I should see for its perspective. New mothers and neighbors, Jessie (Angelica Jackson) and Lina (Brandi Burgess) bond over baby monitors in the backyard. They share all their stresses - not only how to raise their new bundles of joy, but also the ways in which parenting changes their relationship dynamics with their respective families; their fears about returning to work; and how to function in the lonely world of motherhood. Jessie, an upper-middle-class lawyer who just moved out of the city with her husband, fawns over her daughter, Allison. But Allison's arrival didn't necessarily come easy, and Jessie is conflicted over what their future might look like. Lina, a working-class mother from New Jersey, dotes on her son, Max while bring much of the comedy to this play. But Lina's days as a stay-at-home mother are obviously numbered - what will happen she has to return to work sooner rather than later. (Brandi Burgess as Lina is a scene-stealer, and it's wonderful. The way she switches between comedic and dramatic on a dime is stunning (and she's the only one who really gets a chance to do). And the two are joined by wealthy neighbors Adrienne (Anita Holland), Mitchell (Newton Buchanan), and baby Livia - who have a vastly different perspective on what childrearing looks like on a day-to-day basis, but showcase the wide range of emotions post-birth.

As Jessie says in the final moments of the show, this isn't real. These early weeks in which a baby grows, experiences the world, and bonds with their parents are the most important moments of everyone's lives. So much growth and changes happens in those first twelve weeks - and at the same time, how much of it is really setting the stage for a future?

## (a lot of) Stray Observations:
- appreciated the use of a baby for even a moment
- This show *could* happen without Adrienne and Mitchell, but
- "We look down on you" and all its iterations was funny the first time, not so much the second...or third...or fourth...and so on.
- The ending!!! The ending!!! The ending!!
- Others called this a "comedy with dark edges", which seems pretty accurate.
- Appreciated the detailed setting info provided in the playbill - it's referenced throughout the show, but provides much-needed context.
- +1 to costuming
- +1 to plan for family-friendly rehearsal schedule
- The music played between scenes is too creepy. Maybe it's just that horror movies have ruined children's songs for me, but I would've liked it better if we heard quotes from the parents talking to their kids, or the songs being sung to the babies by the actresses.
