---
layout: post
title: "Boycott Esther"
tags: The Drake, Azuka Theatre, Proscenium Theatre
---

*me, reading the playwright's bio before the show: bold of her to mention her relationship to The Weinstein Company*<br />
*me, in the middle of* Boycott Esther *: never mind, makes sense* <br />

Who among us has not followed the #MeToo movement within entertainment industries since its viral popularity in October 2017? In *Boycott Esther*, Esther Lehman (Alison Ormsby) 23-year-old social media influencer finally gets her big break with the possibility of a TV show with the company of media mogul Barry Bloom (Steven Richard). She works with Mary (Alexandra Espinoza) a producer (writer? editor? unclear? I don't know media) at Bloom's company to perfect her pilot script. She talks regularly to her parents, a friend, an agent (all done through video or audio), and posting regularly to her Instagram and Twitter accounts along the way. But when Bloom faces a similar scandal to Weinstein and Cosby - as he explicitly references  - Esther's career is tied too closely to Bloom's orbit. Esther, who presents herself as feminist and empowered and (insert some other word than woke), attempts to keep both that identity and the one tied to Bloom's horrible behavior in order to move forward with her career. How she deals with it  - from her relationship to Bloom and to Mary, as well as her Internet followers and family - take up the latter half of the show.

Despite its difficult topic, the show is *very* funny. Even when the moment is serious, the audience is reacting at the awkwardness of the situation. And there are larger themes at work here. Our leading ladies are not the explicit victims of #MeToo, but also harmed by Bloom's horrible work - it's about how are careers are tied to our ethics. It is a show about feminism, both performative and direct-action-oriented, as Mary brings up in her monologue towards the end of the show. Social media shaming and Internet success is a part of this, too, though it seems less of interest when so many other shows have tackled that story. It fuels the story without ever being the center of attention - and in some ways, seeing this happen to this influencer in a career context whose vested interest in her feminist identity made it more palatable than another show about cyberbullying.

Rishard and Espinoza in their recorded and onstage work, but I mostly want to applaud Ormsby. She is fantastic in the titular role - for most of the show, she's the only physical presence the audience views. She plays it entirely naturally - even the knowing smile she gives as the lights come up for final bows seems in character still. Most of the show takes place in Esther's bedroom (or true-to-life Brooklyn studio apartment), and Ormsby makes even mindless scrolling captivating to watch. Though the time passes incredibly quickly us for us as an audience, we do get to see some aging and maturity (or lack thereof) in the character. Her transformation from 23-year-old empowered Internet-Esther, the one who talks to her parents like she talks to Twitter to a scared and confused 25-year-old in a Brooklyn coffee shop occurs almost instantaneously, and not a second is lost. I truly cannot wait to see her in another production.

Of course, this performance is also a celebration of Maura Krause, who has crafted a show that can function in all these dimensions. Krause's direction not only extends to the physical space of the stage, but to the virtual connections with video, lighting, and sound. The technology at play here is of equal importance to the cast, and it's without a doubt the best uses I've seen of all three media so far this year.

I usually see endings coming, but I completely missed this one and found myself trying to catch up in the final scene. I can't reveal it without explaining many of the hints and conversation the show goes through - it is both inside joke and explanation of much of what comes before it. Which is truly the best kind of final scene, isn't it? Acker's book is truly fantastic for this moment - I wonder what it will look like two or three years down the line, or even a decade or two. While the show is rooted in its technology and the social media on which it depends (in addition to the cultural moment), it's also very much of a story of our internet selves and personalities. As one character notes, how will our AI treat us if this is how we treat ourselves online? And what does our feminism mean for ourselves and others in the workplace if we don't think about the humanity behind our words?  
