---
layout: post
title: "Indecent"
tags:
- Arden Theatre Company
- F. Otto Haas Stage
---
> On the seventh day, God created Yiddish theatre.


## (a lot of) Stray Observations:
- Ending feels off with the start of the play, but also not because it closes with the second scene
- the rain scene vs. THE RAIN SCENE
- language/accent handled very nicely - wasn't expecting the sudden switch within scenes but it made the challenges (once in America) more explicit - where is the freedom here, when the translation has to move
- THE SET. oh, the set. and the projections.
- we get just enough of god of vengeance, but not a ton of details. is there more to the show? three acts suggests more? it's also referenced that the mother is an ex-prostitute? and that ??? is the protagonist, which isn't how the show is depicted to us?
- in the broadway production, the scene we see of Mother is an added/changed/adapted one, right? based on the way they were talking. but then the ending doesn't really make sense, right?
- transition between young!sholom and old!sholom was great. costuming in general really helped here.
- cast is good by all accounts, but shout out the musicians, and to rifkele/manke
- eugene o'neill bit is a bit much (playwright concern)
- musicians! again!
- opening staging (i'm not really a fan of having the actors onstage as the audience comes in - here it just seems awkward). found myself paying attention to who had shoes and didn't (only the musicians have shoes)
- the only acting thing that really bugged me was the mother in the final scene (also, i wish they had performed it in the languages of those countries, but i guess they would've been performed in yiddish?)
- the bit "this is my play, too" from ash's wife - which we see is true, from early on in the show.
- lemml!!!!
